*Teamwork and Conflict in a Data Driven Work Culture*

Scenario: A workplace conflict was given regarding conflict between business co-workers, and the following questions were posed, along with my responses:

1. How did Damon's insistence on the importance of the sales department contribute to the conflict within the team, and what were the implications for the company's overall performance?
A. 1.	Damon’s insistence led to several issues within his team and across the company. Within the team, he often butted heads with Ahmed about how to go about certain things in the sales world. His views of how to make informed sales decisions tended to be more based on feelings as opposed to Ahmed’s more calculated approach. His view of the importance of the sales department led him to behave and act in certain ways that might not look well within the company, such as his somewhat aggressive dealmaking methods that might cause financial loses for the company, which Ahmed disliked heavily with his views on cash flow. This clash between Damon and Ahmed overflows into the rest of the company, as Damon is the head of the sales department, and the CEO was getting calls and messages from other higher ups, concerned that Damon and Ahmad’s feud was getting in the way of progress, as Damon’s rash decisions of analytical tools were not well informed and made more problems than solutions and Ahmed seems to use any opportunity to get one up on Damon, thus leading to issues like not getting approvals for samples. If unchecked, this conflict could lead to a large amount of customers leaving the company because of poor production and sales.

2. Analyze the role of leadership in fostering a collaborative team environment. What leadership strategies could Matthew employ to address the existing conflicts?
A. 2.	Matthew could do a number of things: he could do as Jhumpa said and hire a conflict resolution coach to work with Damon and Ahmed, or perhaps if push comes to shove, he might need to let both of them go to start over from zero without any bad blood. However, it would be a costly decision to let go of 2 high performing leaders of the company all over a personal spat that bled into their professional work. He could also perhaps talk to them individually to hear both of their concerns and complaints, and then have a meeting with them both to help resolve their concerns and come to a negotiation – like a sales meeting almost. Both sides would be able to speak respectfully and without any of the confusion caused by hot tempers.

3. Explore the potential consequences of Damon's refusal to acknowledge the usefulness of data. How might data-driven decision-making benefit the teams including the sales department and the company as a whole?
A. 3.	Damon’s refusal to acknowledge the usefulness of data could led to disastrous results for the company. For starters, not knowing how to use which software in which situation is already a tell-tale sign of poor data analytics. This will just snowball into bigger problems, such as inaccurate models, poor company stock predictions, and losses in sales which leads to shareholders and investors leaving, clients going to competition, and more layoffs to counteract the lack of cashflow. Data driven decision making leads to benefits in both the sales department and the company as a whole by showing were we are currently, any issues we are facing, and possible routes to fix them. It’s similar to the adage of sharpening an axe – it allows you to recollect yourself and return with more precision than before instead of simply wailing with a blunt blade and making no progress.

4. Analyze the influence of personal characteristics, such as Damon's confidence and Ahmed's persistence, on team dynamics. How do these characteristics contribute to or hinder effective teamwork?
A. 4.	Damon and Ahmed both care fiercely for their departments and care very much for the success of the company. Yet, since they both are in positions of leadership, it is common for them to differ on many issues as they are approaching them from different angles. Damon’s persuasiveness and people skills are indispensable for the sales world, as most clients who tend to stick with a company do so because they bonded with a salesperson there, who wasn’t just talking to them for their money, but made a connection with them. Ahmed’s tech-savy nature and awareness of the market is equally important, as it allows for the company to keep tabs with their competitors and to adjust what issues may exist in their products before competition blows them out of the water, as well as being able to present analytical findings to the rest of the company to keep the workers informed of the progress and future steps that are need to be taken to stay on top.

5. Examine the long-term implications of the team conflicts within the executive team on the company’s ability to achieve its revenue and growth goals. What strategic measures should be taken to mitigate these effects and promote collaboration?
A. 5.	Team conflicts always lead to issues if not treated immediately, and even more so when involving the heads of departments. If leaders can’t work together, it breaks apart the concept of teamwork in the company. As such, what was once a well oiled machine begins to fall apart as suddenly proposals can’t be approved, information isn’t being sent to relevant parties, and sales orders aren’t going through. It might even reach to the point of the company taking a permanent dive as mentioned above in question 3. There are many strategic measures to promote collaboration, and some were discussed in question 2. Some other methods that could be done would be to attend collaboration workshops for specific departments or even get togethers so that workers can get to know each other better. Each team might also be encouraged to show why they are important so that no one thinks less of each other in the grand scheme of things. 
